Amazon CloudWatch monitors your Amazon Web Services (AWS) resources and the applications you run on AWS in real time
Default metrics of EC2 instance: Network usage CPU Usage 

Metrics:
Metrics are data about the performance of your systems
Basic monitoring: which polls for every 5 minutes
Detailed monitoring: which polls for every 1 minute
Alarm state
Insufficient 
OK state 
Alarm:
CloudWatch Alarms feature allows you to watch CloudWatch metrics and to receive notifications when the metrics fall outside of the levels (high or low thresholds) that you configure
Ex:
If CPU utilization goes beyond the static threshold alarm goes to alarm state 
Three states in CW Alarm:


VPC Peering: 
•	A VPC peering connection is a networking connection between two VPCs that enables you to route traffic between them using private IPv4 addresses or IPv6 addresses. 
•	Instances in either VPC can communicate with each other as if they are within the same network.
•	You can create a VPC peering connection between your own VPCs, or with a VPC in another AWS account.
•	The VPCs can be in different regions (also known as an inter-region VPC peering connection
Conditions:
•	CIDR block shouldn’t overlap 
•	Transitive peering relationships are not supported. i.e here VPC B cannot connect with VPC C.
•	If the VPCs are in different regions, inter-region data transfer costs apply.
•	You cannot have more than one VPC peering connection between the same two VPCs at the same time.

Elastic load Balancer (ELB):

	Manage and control the flow of inbound request to group of targets by distributing the requests evenly across the targets. The targets may be EC2 instances lambda or containers
Types of Load balancer:

Application load balancer:
•	Used mainly for web application running http and https protocols.
•	Operates at request level.

Network Load balancer:
•	Ultra-high Performance at very low latency.
•	Operates at connection level, routing traffic to targets with in VPC.
•	Can handle millions of requests per second.

Classic load Balancer:
•	Used for applications that were built in existing EC2 classic env.
•	Operates both at connection & request level.

S3 has a simple web services interface that you can use to store and retrieve any amount of data, at any time, from anywhere on the web

S3 Storage classes:
•	Standard:
	Designed for general- and all-purpose storage 
	Default storage option
	99.999999999% object durability
	99.99% object availability 
	Most expensive storage class.

•	Reduced Redundancy storage 
	Designed for non-critical objects 
	99.99% object durability 
	99.99% object availability
	Less expensive than standard

•	Infrequent access
	Designed for less frequently accessed objects.
	99.999999999% object durability
	99.99% object availability
Less expensive than reduced redundancy storage

•	Glacier
	Designed for long term archival storage 
	May take several hours to retrieve the objects from this storage 
	Cheapest s3 storage class

Yet, EC2 instances pair up with Amazon’s Elastic Block Storage (Amazon EBS) for greater durability.
You can also use the Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) with EC2 as additional storage.
So, how do EC2 instances help?

ultimate-guide-to-cloud-cost-optimization-cover 

👉 FREE GUIDE 🔥

The Last Cloud Cost Optimization Guide You'll Ever Need.

Discover how to monitor, control, and optimize your AWS account and never be surprised by a bill again.

Your Email*
Subscribe to our blog for fresh content delivered to your inbox and receive access to our most popular guide!

What Are EC2 Instances Used For?
AWS offers five categories of Amazon EC2 instances for a variety of use cases. Here's a quick overview of EC2 instances available today:

Amazon ECS Instances

General Purpose

Compute Optimized

Memory Optimized

Storage Optimized

Accelerated Computing

General Purpose instances provide balanced CPU, RAM, storage, and networking performance for a wide variety of workloads.
Compute-optimized instances are suitable for workloads that require high-performance processing capacity, such as batch processing and high-traffic web servers.
Memory-optimized instances are ideal for workloads that require processing large data sets in memory.
Storage-optimized instances facilitate rapid, sequential read and write access to vastly large sets of data on local storage. They allow applications to perform tens of thousands of random I/O operations per second (IOPS) at low latency.
Accelerated computing instances leverage co-processing or hardware accelerators to perform specific tasks, such as graphics processing.

AWS EC2 Instance Purchasing Options
On-Demand Instances This is one of the most flexible option to launch an EC2 instance in AWS. You pay per second of compute capacity that you launch.
Reserved Instances All you need is to commit to a specific instance configuration, instance type and duration which can be either 1 or 3 years.
Savings Plans 
Spot Instances Spot instances are one of the most cost effective options to launch an EC2 instance on AWS but your instance can be taken from you at any time
Dedicated Hosts 
Dedicated Instances
Capacity Reservations
